>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
so this gets interesting.
We have a local template variable, and so
you'll see this especially
when we're working with forms.
But we have the ability to essentially
take an element in our HTML and
assign it a variable that
Angular can then reference.
So it's available essentially
anywhere within the current template,
but it's also available in
the component using view child.
So this is kind of out of
scope of this discussion, but
anytime you want to create
a variable that references
a specific element in your markup,
you do so with a hashtag.
And to consume it we simply
use it without the hashtags.
So big question,
what the heck am I talking about here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
when you're using forms in Angular, and
we'll cover this tomorrow.
What Angular does is, you have your
HTML that represents your form.
And you're essentially binding that
form to an object of some sort.
So you can see here,
that we are binding this form,
we have two inputs that's bound to
really item description and item name.
But you'll notice here that, or
rather because you have something bound
to a form that doesn't really give you
an indication of the state of the form.
For instance,
you'll notice that on our selected
item name that is a required field.
Well how do we know the state
of the form that we're in?
Like how do we separate the actual
values of the form that it's bound to,
to the state of the form?
So for instance, does the values in the
form match the requirements of the form,
like is it actually valid?
And so
what Angular does under the hood and
it did this in Angular 1 in
the form of a form controller.
Is it kind of implicitly
creates essentially this entity
behind the scenes,
that is keeping track of your form.
So in this case, we can reference
that by creating a local variable
called dollar formRef,
you can call it whatever you want.
And we're simply saying
dollar formRef = ngForm.
So ngForm is essentially
the top level form group
that's keeping track of
the state of your form.
So don't worry too much
about this right now.
Just know that Angular
has to keep track of,
if your form is valid or not and
it does that using ngForm.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Two questions up,
when do we need to use ATR?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Attribute.
>> Speaker 2: Yep, and
when will we be doing template drive and
reactive forms as well?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we are going to start out with
template driven forms tomorrow,
and we'll see how far we get.
And you will need to use essentially
attribute when you are trying to
bind to something that doesn't
actually exist on that element.
So like for instance call span or
something like that is a good example.
So when you're trying to basically bind
to attribute that doesn't exist on
that element.
I don't know, then you can use attribute.
And there is actually some use cases
in the documentation where they talk
specifically about that.
But especially with SVG is
where you try to bind something
that the native dome element,
it doesn't exist.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
so dollar formRef.
We now have a reference to this
underlying form group that's
keeping track of the state of the form.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now what I want
everyone to focus on is if we go to
the bottom, button type="submit".
Now we're binding to the disabled
property or attribute,
and we're saying if formRef is not
valid then disable the button.
And we know that formRef is not
valid because we are binding that
essentially to ngForm.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
let me actually, and so
we can do this as well
with regular text input.
So just so everybody can see this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now I'm
creating,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: A local template
variable called colorInput
as denoted by the hashtag,
let me actually just expand this out here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so now,
let's go and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually,
let's do this.
So just one pro tip,
this actually one of the most common
things I use in Angular,
is when you want to debug something,
pre-tag whatever you want to actually,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Debug.
And then if you use JSON, essentially
what this does is it takes an object and
it calls to JSON on it.
And so now by wrapping this
in this pre-tag you get
this kind of pretty JSON
object in your page.
So we'll go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
hold on one second.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There's one caveat.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Believe this is it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So it doesn't allow me to actually
do two JSON on the core object.
But I can actually grab the value
of it and dump that out.
So this is where local template
variables come in handy,
is when you can reference something
else into the inter template somewhere.
So if we go here let's actually see,
and try something here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, so
I think that only works on the,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hold on,
so if I went like,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's do
this on a form.
So we'll go form,
now validate,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ngForm,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then let's just put
this in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm getting ahead
of myself a little bit, but YOLO.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, so
now what I've done is I've created a local
reference to the form and I can output it.
And then you'll see here, and so
this is really what I was talking about,
about the state of the form.
It's no longer valid, so it's false.
And then with just our
typing you can see now,
there's something under the hood keeping
track of like this is a valid element.
Makes sense?
So this is just a way to
keep track of local template
elements, and
you can then perform additional logic.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So Angular does
come with some built-in directives that
ships with it, and
they're broken into two classes.
So structural directives, and
let's see if I can get into this.
Actually, mainly structural
directives is that a structural
directive essentially
changes the DOM layout.
So there are attribute directives but
the main one,
actually what I really wanna talk about
here, is structural directives and
it essentially modifies
the structure of the DOM.
Now what you're gonna see here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is within
in these structural directives,
so ngIf, ngFor,
ngSwitch that there is an asterisk.
I think we lost my screen,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
so you'll notice this asterisks here.
So what this is, is it tells Angular that
we are going to be modifying the DOM.
And what that does is
provide syntactic sugar for
Angular to essentially create
a template element within
the page than then wraps what
we are going to actually modify.
So what happens is when
you modify the DOM,
kind of following this web
component kind of spec.
Is that there's a template tag that
changes the way that a template is
actually rendered or an element.
So what Angular does is, when it's saying,
we are going to take this from the dom or
add it in,
it will wrap that into a template tag.
So this is something that unless
I told you, at this point,
you would just never see it.
It just happens completely under the hood.
But the long hand version of this for
example, is you notice here we have at
the top these spans that we're
saying based on toeChoice.
If it's Eenie, Meanie, Miney or
Moe, then show this one element and
then hide the other ones.
But what's really happening under
the hood is that Angular's saying,
we need to actually modify the DOM,
wrap every one of these elements in
a template tag and then bind it.
And so I would just prefer to do asterisk,
do my thing than
having to go here and wrap all of these
elements in template tags and do that.
So the team felt like this was just
a little verbose at the bottom,
and so that's where they came
up with this asterisk operator.
Again, you do not have to understand
digestion at a molecular level to
enjoy eating.
And one more navigation operator, and
this is the safe navigation operator or
Elvis.
And so occasionally you would
need to bind to something or
a property in your DOM
that doesn't exist yet.
So this will actually happen quite a bit
when you're working with observables where
it can happen.
And so what this does is it allows, so
previously Angular was just in 15 or
1.s simply like this thing doesn't exist,
[NOISE] I'm just not gonna show it.
Angular 2, they're little more strick and
they're like if this things doesn't exist,
we're going to let you know.
This is not good, and so
this allows us to safeguard against null,
essentially null values that
were binding to in our template.
So this would be an example of this.
If we had a nullHero object, and
firstName did not exist on it.
We could then use essentially
the safe navigation operator
to say bind to this if it exists,
if not [NOISE] carry on.
Makes sense?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, let me show you,
I'll just show you a few more examples
then we'll get into the code challenge.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's see here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go colors,
hopefully that's not
a reserved word, blue, red, tomato.
>> Speaker 2: Papayawhip.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Papayawhip?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: My goodness,
this is amazing.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Papayawhip.
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm kind of skeptical,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And more so
I'm eagerly impressed, one part skeptical,
three parts impressed that you
actually know these colors.
Holy!
>> Speaker 3: I think it's
from Bryan Holts class, right?
>> Speaker 2: No, no, no,
it's 147 colors with some fanciful names.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I feel like I've been
living below my privileges as a human
being up to this point.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, so,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's just keep this
party going.
I now have a collection of colors that
I would like to display on the stage.
So first things first, let's use ngFor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So actually talk
about some of these, I realized.
So ngFor what this does is it says for
every item in this collection go ahead and
stamp out this element as a template,
okay?
So we'll go let color,
that's gonna be interesting.
You know what?
let c of
colors,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then we'll just go c.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
see what happens.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm gonna go in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then what it's doing,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Basically stamping out
one of these every time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If we go back,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's take this
a step further.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: background.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: color maybe?
Let's try this.
>> Speaker 2: It's probably
capitalized as opposed to dash
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Sounds
like a basis for a test.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Cool, then,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So ngFor,
it basically takes a collection and
for every element in the collection,
it stamps out a template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The other one
that I wanna show you is ngIf.
So we'll go div,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: *ngIF,
and we'll just take this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're simply
saying that if it's not valid,
go ahead and show it.
Fix your form sucka!
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Cuz now that
condition is true, then it evaluates.
It'll go ahead and show it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the question is,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is just like Swift optionals, talking
about the safe navigation operator.
I believe yes, that is.
And Yohana's asked is there
something equal to index?
And I'm pretty sure there is, let me
just double check the Docs real quick.
I haven't needed to use this,
but I would wager.
So now everybody gets to see,
when I get stuck how I solve this.
This latest 4/API is probably the single
most helpful page in the entire,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: NgFor, yeah, so there
is additional properties, there we go.
So let's actually try this,
so good question.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: [NOISE]
How would I do this?
So we'll go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: let
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So you can see it
starts at zero, zero,
one, two, three, four.
And so you have the ability
to actually track the index.